README.md, before:

# StudentConnect

<p align="center">
  <img src="/scfavcons/android-chrome-192x192.png" alt="StudentConnect Logo" width="96" height="96">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b>The Modern Student Productivity Dashboard</b><br>
  <i>Built by Yuktheshwar MP</i>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#getting-started"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Getting%20Started-Guide-blue" alt="Getting Started"></a>
  <a href="#license"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="#contact"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Contact-Yuktheshwar-blueviolet" alt="Contact"></a>
</p>

---

## Table of Contents
- [About the Project](#about-the-project)
- [Motive](#motive)
- [Features](#features)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Customization](#customization)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)

---

## About the Project
**StudentConnect** is a next-generation productivity dashboard designed to empower students to manage their academic life efficiently, stay organized, and boost their productivity through a beautiful, intuitive, and feature-rich web application.

### Motive
As a student, I realized the need for a unified platform that combines task management, note-taking, habit tracking, analytics, and more—all tailored for the modern learner. StudentConnect is built to:
- Centralize all academic and personal productivity tools in one place
- Encourage healthy study habits and time management
- Provide actionable insights and analytics for continuous improvement
- Offer a delightful, distraction-free user experience

---

## Features
- 📅 **Task Management:** Organize assignments, deadlines, and to-dos
- 📝 **Notes:** Take, edit, and search notes with a markdown-friendly editor
- 🗓️ **Calendar & Planner:** Visualize your schedule and plan your week
- 📈 **Analytics Dashboard:** Get insights into your study patterns and progress
- 🏆 **Gamification:** Earn badges and rewards for achieving milestones
- 💡 **Habit Tracker:** Build and maintain positive study and lifestyle habits
- 🎯 **Grade & Progress Tracker:** Monitor your academic performance and set goals
- 🌙 **Dark/Light Mode:** Switch themes for comfort
- 📱 **Responsive Design:** Works seamlessly on desktop, tablet, and mobile

---

## Screenshots
> _Add screenshots or GIFs here to showcase your app UI_

---

## Tech Stack
- **Frontend:** [React](https://react.dev/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)
- **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), [shadcn-ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Animation:** [Framer Motion](https://www.framer.com/motion/)
- **Utilities:** [date-fns](https://date-fns.org/)

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+ recommended)
- npm (v9+ recommended)

### Installation
```sh
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YUKII2K3/StudentConnect--main.git
cd StudentConnect--main

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```
The app will be available at [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) by default.

---

## Deployment
You can deploy StudentConnect to any modern static hosting provider (Vercel, Netlify, GitHub Pages, etc.):
```sh
npm run build
# Deploy the contents of the 'dist' folder
```

---

## Customization
- Update your profile and preferences in the Settings page
- Add or remove widgets as needed for your workflow
- Customize the theme and appearance to suit your style

---

## Contributing
Contributions, feedback, and suggestions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub.

---

## License
© 2025 Yuktheshwar. All rights reserved. (MIT License)

---

## Contact
- **Author:** Yuktheshwar MP ([LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/yuktheshwar-mp))
- **Email:** yuktheshwarshali@gmail.com

---

<p align="center"><b>StudentConnect</b> – Built with passion for students, by a student. Empower your academic journey!</p>

Commit message:

Final internship feature updates - new features and improvements added

README.md, after:

# StudentConnect

<p align="center">
  <img src="/scfavcons/android-chrome-192x192.png" alt="StudentConnect Logo" width="96" height="96">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b>The Modern Student Productivity Dashboard</b><br>
  <i>Built by Yuktheshwar MP</i>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#getting-started"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Getting%20Started-Guide-blue" alt="Getting Started"></a>
  <a href="#license"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="#contact"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Contact-Yuktheshwar-blueviolet" alt="Contact"></a>
</p>

---

## Table of Contents
- [About the Project](#about-the-project)
- [Motive](#motive)
- [Features](#features)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Customization](#customization)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)

---

## About StudentConnect

**StudentConnect** is a modern, full-stack productivity platform built to help students efficiently manage their academic and personal lives. Leveraging React, FastAPI, and MongoDB, StudentConnect provides a seamless experience for organizing tasks, tracking habits, collaborating in real time, and visualizing progress through analytics.

### How It Works
- **Task & Note Management:**  
  Easily create, edit, and organize tasks and notes. All data is managed through an intuitive interface, with deadlines, priorities, and search functionality.
- **Real-Time Collaboration:**  
  Join study groups and participate in real-time group chats. Messages are instantly broadcast via WebSockets and persistently stored in MongoDB.
- **Analytics & Progress Tracking:**  
  Visual dashboards provide insights into study habits, completed tasks, grades, and more, helping students monitor and improve their performance.
- **Motivational Tools:**  
  The dashboard features daily motivational quotes and gamification elements to encourage consistent progress.
- **Responsive Design:**  
  The application is fully responsive and accessible on desktop, tablet, and mobile devices.
- **Seamless Integration:**  
  All features are tightly integrated, ensuring a unified and distraction-free productivity environment.

**StudentConnect** is designed for ease of use, reliability, and extensibility, making it an ideal solution for students seeking to boost productivity and stay organized.

---

## Features
- 📅 **Task Management:** Organize assignments, deadlines, and to-dos
- 📝 **Notes:** Take, edit, and search notes with a markdown-friendly editor
- 🗓️ **Calendar & Planner:** Visualize your schedule and plan your week
- 📈 **Analytics Dashboard:** Get insights into your study patterns and progress
- 🏆 **Gamification:** Earn badges and rewards for achieving milestones
- 💡 **Habit Tracker:** Build and maintain positive study and lifestyle habits
- 🎯 **Grade & Progress Tracker:** Monitor your academic performance and set goals
- 🌙 **Dark/Light Mode:** Switch themes for comfort
- 📱 **Responsive Design:** Works seamlessly on desktop, tablet, and mobile

---

## Screenshots
> _Add screenshots or GIFs here to showcase your app UI_

---

## Tech Stack
- **Frontend:** [React](https://react.dev/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)
- **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), [shadcn-ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Animation:** [Framer Motion](https://www.framer.com/motion/)
- **Utilities:** [date-fns](https://date-fns.org/)

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+ recommended)
- npm (v9+ recommended)

### Installation
```sh
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YUKII2K3/StudentConnect--main.git
cd StudentConnect--main

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```
The app will be available at [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) by default.

---

## Deployment
You can deploy StudentConnect to any modern static hosting provider (Vercel, Netlify, GitHub Pages, etc.):
```sh
npm run build
# Deploy the contents of the 'dist' folder
```

---

## Customization
- Update your profile and preferences in the Settings page
- Add or remove widgets as needed for your workflow
- Customize the theme and appearance to suit your style

---

## Contributing
Contributions, feedback, and suggestions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub.

---

## License
© 2025 Yuktheshwar. All rights reserved. (MIT License)

---

## Contact
- **Author:** Yuktheshwar MP ([LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/yuktheshwar-mp))
- **Email:** yuktheshwarshali@gmail.com

---

<p align="center"><b>StudentConnect</b> – Built with passion for students, by a student. Empower your academic journey!</p>
